>> Steve Kinney: We're doing this
in chronological order, right?
By chronological order I mean things
that existed into older versions
of Tailwind first and
then we will get to the new hotness and
all of them interplay with
each other super nicely.
But it feels logical to do it
when to do it in the order
in which they were received
into CSS Tailwind.
The first interesting one for us is, and
this is some Tailwind doing some
CSS syntactic sugar on your behalf.
Can you do this all in regular css?
Of course you can.
When we hover over it, I will show
you that you probably don't want to.
So there is this tailwind
class called group.
You can put this on any parent element and
it does nothing good talk.
What it does do is it allows
you to then anywhere in there
have any of the other ones you
saw before hover active focus.
Why you use focus within on a group,
I don't know.
But any of those things, it will allow you
to say group any of those variants and
to say okay,
when it is true for the parent.
This is what I want to happen.
Right?
And so
if you wanted to have a card where, hey,
don't put any underlines on the link until
they hover anywhere over the card and
then throw underlines on the entire thing,
we'll do it in a second, don't worry.
>> Speaker 2: So that lower group
hover will refer to the higher group.
>> Steve Kinney: Exactly.
Yeah, exactly.
>> Speaker 2: So you could have something
that's nested quite deep and say it for
whatever reason.
It's bold.
I want everything bold.
>> Steve Kinney: Yeah,
it wouldn't be necessarily bold.
It would be like these variants of hover
active focus invalid valid the pseudo
states.
So yeah, as you can see, a border and
a background would have done a lot of good
in this example, but
it didn't occur to me at the moment.
So as I can hover over the parent card.
We can also.
We have cards, we have checkboxes,
we have this stuff we can do in Storybook
in a second as I hover over the parent,
this thing that has group hover.
Anything that happens with a group
applies to this given one.
Right?
Well, so here's like, here's a card.
I did it.
I was like, I should have put
one with a border and stuff.
Look, next example.
I did do that.
Go past me.
Okay, so we look at this.
It's got group.
I'm not going to hover over it just yet.
I'm not going to run the surprise.
We've got group.
And here we say on the button Is that,
hey,
we're learning about CSS
transitions right now.
It's fine if they hover over the group.
I want to make the Buy now
button a little bit bigger.
Now you can see as we hover
over anywhere in the card.
You can also see the title changes color
because I was getting carried away.
And so
you can kind of get these cool effects.
And we'll look at that in a second.
We can do it to one of
our cards if we want to.
We can do it to the checkbox.
We're going to do it to a bunch of stuff
over time, but it works for anywhere.
Anything that you can basically,
on the state of the parent,
apply different classes to the children.
The other one is,
we haven't talked about has yet.
So the other one that we have is peer,
which is simply the only nuance here.
And this is just a CSS thing, is peer is.
You can put peer on any given class and
it has all the elements,
all of its sibling elements after it,
not before.
It's a limitation of css.
So you can say, okay, this label,
I don't think that one works.
Yeah.
So, yeah, so
we say that this input is peer.
And then you can see that this
error message says if any element
before this one is invalid,
make the text red, right?
And so this is the email address.
And so you can say automatically, I don't
have to like apply a bunch of classes and
look at the state and
regexit or anything like that.
I can simply say, hey, if this input
field is invalid, whichever one is marked
peer in this case, as you can see,
it does not work beforehand though, right?
Because ideally, if this worked,
you would see the label.
It only works for once after.
And I will show you there are ways.
There are ways.
There are ways that only existed
not too long ago, though.
The last time we did this workshop,
there were not ways.
Last time we did this workshop,
I was playing fast and
loose with the ordering and then like
Flex reversing them and a whole bunch of.
Yeah, that face is appropriate.
But like I said before, if there are
things that are terrible, eventually they
get added to the platform as additional
hacks on top of all the other hacks.
So we will see how to make both red.
If this was invalid, we will get there.
But right now, peer works for
anything subsequently afterwards, right?
Which means that, yeah,
prior I would do terrible things like
swapping the order of the label.
Actually, this one would work, right?
I could do something.
Let's do it right now.
We'll say Peer.
And then for the label, I'm going to say
class because it just happens to be in
this one that the label
comes after the input.
If you think about our text inputs,
the labels came before.
This one just happens to work great.
So let's do it.
We'll say peerchecked.
Is this strikethrough?
Apparently, off the top of my head,
do not remember the class four
putting a line through through.
You know what,
we're just going to make it green.
It'll be great.
And I will show you my trick for
when you forget a class right afterwards,
because I'm going to
need to use my own trick.
So here we'll say we put the pure class
on this checkbox and then we'll say if.
If you have a older sibling in
line order that is checked,
then turn the text to Green500 and
let's pop over to our storybook.
You can now see that when the checkbox
is checked, it turns green.
But that's not what we want.
We want to figure out how
to do a strikethrough.
So let me show you my trick.
You go to tailwindcss.com you hit
Command K and you start typing.
No, that's for css.
There is a way to put a line
through stuff in css, right?
I definitely have it in
one of the examples.
I can go find it in a second,
but I've forgotten for a moment.
But anyway, this, the point stands.
Command K on the tailwind docs.
You wanna find out all the colors
to start taking colors.
Here you go.
But yeah, so peer will work for
any sibling.
Comes after group works for any child.
And for the longest time,
that was all that you had to work with.
>> Speaker 2: Did you
try line dash through?
For the strikethrough?
>> Steve Kinney: Adding
a line through text.
Text decoration line through.
There it is.
Perfect.
I kept thinking strike through.
Right?
Because that's usually,
I think what it's doing.
>> Speaker 2: It says strike through
a text decoration line through.
>> Steve Kinney: I don't know why.
Let's do it.
Text decoration line through.
This is why you live
code with your friends.
Hey, there it is.
Teamwork.
So like I said, prior to Tailwind 4 and
Modern, CSS Group and
peer were all you had to work with.
Right?
But there are a few more that we'll
take a look at in a second that we
can kind of play with as well.